---
layout: post
title: "Introduce to PhenoMeNal"
excerpt:  
author: "Jianliang"
date: "21 July 2018"
status: publish
published: true
output: html_document
---
 

 
## Project Name

**PhenoMeNal -- Large Scale Computing for Medical Metabolomics**
 
PhenoMeNal (Phenome and Metabolome aNalysis) is a comprehensive and standardised e-infrastructure that supports the data processing and analysis pipelines for molecular phenotype data generated by metabolomics applications.
 
## Objectives
 
* To use existing open source community standards, integrate tools, resources and methods for the management, dissemination and computational analysis of very large datasets of human metabolic phenotyping and genomic data into a secure and sustainable e-Infrastructure.
 
* To operate and consolidate the PhenoMeNal e-infrastructure based on existing internal and external HPC (High-performance computing), cloud, and grid resources, including the EGI and the EGI Federated Cloud, and to extend it to world-wide computational infrastructures.
To improve and scale-up tools used within the infrastructure to cope with very large datasets.
To establish technology for a water-tight audit trail for the processing of human metabolic phenotyping data from the raw data acquisition all the way to the generation of high-level biomedical insights (such as a medical diagnosis).
 
* To establish privacy-protection methods that allow working with highly sensitive molecular phenotype data.
 
* To foster the worldwide adoption of PhenoMeNal through a wide range of outreach, dissemination, networking and training activities.
 
* To develop a model to ensure sustainability of the PhenoMeNal network.
 
## Website

For more detail, please visit: 
>Introduction <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f8tmWikvAgw>
>Tutorial <https://www.ebi.ac.uk/training/online/courses/phenomenal-gateway/>
